“Vanakkam Raj san.
My name is Annamalai.
I have been watching your Quotidian videos
from Day 001!
I have and always will be a huge fan of your
Quotidian series.
It has inspired me in so many ways, from motivating
me to read more books, helping me work on
my side-projects, and most importantly, helping
me learn something interesting every day!
Looking forward to a never-ending Quotidian
series!
Nandri!
Vanakkam!”
That is Annamalai.
One of the many ardent fans and probably learners,
I would say, of the Quotidian Journey, and
I am truly proud and happy to have him here
and be the host for Four Hundred and Forty.
Four Hundred and Thirty Nine have gone by.
We are going to try and answer the questions
and comments that came up out of episodes
431 to 439.
Raj:- That description…
In Youtube, the description of the Quotidian
videos, chapterme.co — He is
the founder of that company!
Why don’t we start by hearing you speak
about that?!”
Annamalai:- Namaste to everybody.
And, thank you Raj, Rajendran, Raj san as
I would call, for inviting me.
And, I think, I’ve been watching from Day
001, and the thing I like best about this
whole thing is, he gives me a lot of insights,
different things, and relates it to business.
And, I run a startup, and so, I learn a lot,
from different books that I have not read,
and also from, lot of these life lessons,
that help me in my journey.
So, thank you, Raj san, for inviting me.
And, to talk about ChapterMe, the idea came
to me when I realised that I was watching
TOO MANY YouTube videos, and I found it difficult
to watch the whole video, almost like an ADHD
perhaps, I am not actually, but I have that
issue, I don’t have too much concentration
to watch long videos and podcasts.
So, my idea was “Why not have chapters,
like we have in books!”
And, this was how this initiative started.
Raj:- Nobody else has it…?
Wow!
Annamalai:- Nobody else has done it as of
today, but people are starting to “get”
it.
But, earlier, when we started, no one was
doing it.
Nobody really understood what this was, when
we went to the market.
But, now, slowly, people are starting to understand.
How this helps with SEO.
And, also for the viewers as well.
Once upon a time, viewers would just skip
and run away, but now they understand more
about the content, they watch more, the viewing
duration has gone up, that has really helped.
We have been doing this for nearly a year
now.
We are about like thirty customers, both companies
as well as YouTube creators.
So..
Annamalai:- So, let us go from 431 to 439.
Let us look at some questions.
And, I also have a few questions to ask, along
the way.
In 431, Sumitra Palanisamy had posted a comment
about Pamper Versus Pander.
Please pamper, but don’t pander.
Even for me, it was a really interesting thought…
Raj:- They call these “base desires”..
I distinctly remember a scene from childhood.
Something that has been burnt into my memory.
About our nextdoor neighbour.
They were watching TV, all the family members,
together.
The Child is crying out loud.
The Mother is trying to control the child.
The Father is busy watching, and doesn’t
want to be disturbed.
And, he is imploring the Mother to control
the Child.
“Attend to him”, he says.
The Mother tries, but fails, and explains,
“There is a large ant on the floor, and
he wants to crush it!”
and the Father….. (believe it or not!) says,
“Why don’t you catch the ant and give
it to him then!?”
It happened!
In my childhood, I distinctly remember this.
I think this is pandering.
For, there seems to be no value system at
all.
We can’t let a child have its way, if that’s
going to fracture the value system!
If we do that, we are not preparing him or
her for a meaningful life beyond this parental
cocoon..
A school, college, work environment, society,
we are not preparing that person.
We can’t blame them, afterwards.
So, pamper, but don’t pander.
Annamalai:- Very well said.
Another resonant thought that comes to mind
is your words on “Tough love”.
That’s like really important.
You need to provide the love, but it needs
to be with constraints.
Raj:- I am giving you attention, because I
love you.
And, that attention is probably leading you
to receive some harshness from me but remember
that also comes from a position of love.
“I won’t waste my time and energy advising
a random kid on the street, it is only to
you that I will offer them!”, my Dad used
to tell me!
Annamalai:- Yes, you’ve talked about this
before.
You had also talked about another concept
— “Watch and Learn”.
Where developers can learn by observing.
You had talked about the Onam festival, where,
after cooking you go and watch and find out
from the eater’s expression… and, I was
reminded of a company called Drift.
It is an embeddable-chatbot company.
I heard that they had mandated that every
employee in the company joining the workforce
would work in the customer support channel
briefly…
Raj:- Has to go through that experience…
Annamalai:- Exactly.
When you do that, you learn, you understand
the customer’s perspective.
You become a better developer.
Raj:- Right.
Beautiful.
Feet on street can’t be separated from the
people here doing the other work.
One can never run a successful business that
way.
What are the daily trials and tribulations
of these people here, those people there must
always know!
Annamalai:- Next, we come to 432.
Burnout.
Lots of beautiful points.
Lots of interesting comments too.
One of these was from Sethuraj.
At 18:03, you talk about the candle being
burnt on both ends.
He says, “I love that.
I learned that you can’t do two works simultaneously.
Pick one, finish, then start the next.
Planning is important.
Balance is important between the emotional
and rational sides.
There are infinite possibilities, after all.
Lots of paths available”…
Raj:- Do one thing.
Do it well.
This is something that our great-grandparents
have been advising us about, since time immemorial!
My grandma didn’t like it when I was reading
a book while I was eating.
Because, she felt it was an insult to the
culinary effort that had gone into preparing
that food.
I have put in a lot of effort.
I didn’t read a book while cooking this.
You don’t read a book at least while eating
this.
And, .. that Flow.. the book by Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi,
he says specifically, again and again, just
this one point.
It takes time to get your wavering mind to
focus on one thing.
It takes time.
If you are going to let it swing between TWO
things, it is like trying to ride on two horses
at the same time.
It is impossible.
Isn’t it?
Annamalai:- Also, it is like, one of the most
important causes for Burnout.
Like you doing multiple things.
And, moonlighting is such a prime example
of that.
Raj:- Correct.
Annamalai:- Sumitra Palanisamy talks about
two rules to beat stress / depression.
Change / Alter the things you are in control
of.
Go with the flow for the ones you can’t
control anyway.
Like they quip in the Vikram movie, “Paatthukkalaam!”
Raj:- “Paatthukkalaam…”!
Yes.
But, the problem here is, the elders speak
words of wisdom and move on with their lives.
The common man, you and me, the problem we
face is, we are not able to immediately ascertain
what’s actually in our control and what’s
actually not!
We think we can influence a customer, we think
we can launch a feature and get millions of
new registrations, but we don’t realise
that it is not in our control, until the last
minute.
And…
yes, it is right to say “Don’t obsess
and fret about things that are not in your
control”, but I think a lot of effort should
be put in to find out what’s in your control
first.
Probably NOTHING IS!
Probably nothing is in our control.
Let us start with that precept.
The only thing in your control is the ability
to do meaningful work true to your conscience
and passion.
Why don’t we start the game assuming we
have nothing ELSE in our control?!
Probably that’ll lead you to more happiness.
Annamalai:- Less control is like more…
Less is more!
Raj:- Yes, Less is more!
Annamalai:- I had another thought of mine.
Like, what can be done in person…
You had talked about stuff that has to be
done appropriately, where.. for example, some
things have to happen over a call and not
an email…
Raj:- Yes, while talking about remote work?
Annamalai:- Yes, you need to understand the
situation.
Some, you can do in person, some you can do
over a call, some can be texted.
And, so, according to the situation, adapt
yourself, and not like just focus on one way…
Raj:- What is your personal experience?
Working…
do you work in the same office, or, remote
offices, from home…
Annamalai:- Earlier, we were working from
remote locations, but now, we thought, this
was a crucial expansion phase, why not work
together, because it gives a much better experience.
Raj:- So, you think coming back to office
makes sense?
Annamalai:- Yes, coming to the office is important.
When you are a small team, particularly, it
makes a lot of sense.
When you are together, you tend to achieve
more.
Raj:- But these software folks, folks like
you and me, … their usual refrain is, “All
I need is my computer and an internet connection..
Why do you force me to come to office”…
and what is your reaction to that?!
As a young CEO?!
Annamalai:- Well, this is how I see it.
It depends.
For some, this clicks.
This works.
They can do things on their own.
They are more productive doing it that way.
And, you can perhaps let them do it their
way.
Perhaps, they are introverted.
Raj:- The senior lone-wolf people, who have
understood how the company works, ok…
Well, this is something we both are on the
same page on, then!
Annamalai:- For some others, it may be better
for them to come to the office and work…
Raj:- New joinees, …
Annamalai:- Yes, new joinees, for they need
to learn the culture, and understand the vision
of the company so they can do their work right.
Raj:- Thumbs up!
Annamalai:- One more comment was from Shankaran
K..
He asks, “What made you choose this topic”.
Because, you choose different topics, some
of them are very relevant…
Raj:- Well, it just struck well for you.
I am looking out at the dark sky, and throwing
a random stone.
And, you are on the other side, to catch this
particular stone, while expecting something
to come your way!
That’s the way I see it!
A happy coincidence that you like it!
How do I choose the next topic, frankly, 440
episodes have gone by, and I don’t choose
one too far ahead of the time.
When I was doing 365 topics in 365 days, I
would start thinking about the next video
after finishing the current video.
But, now, you know that famous “Last day
tension”?
When that hits you, I ask myself, what did
I read interesting in the last few days, what
did I interact with my students at Zoho Schools
in the last few days, is there a book I read,
I attend a book club meeting every week, did
somebody talk about something interesting,
stuff like that, collected from here and there,
small nuggets, half-polished gems, if I can
put them together, string them into a necklace,
… that is my aim.
Till now, touch wood, it has been running
well, I don’t have a plan!
Seriously, I don’t have a plan!
Annamalai:- He also mentions that this is
a much-needed awareness video for working
professionals, for they need to understand…
Raj:- Burnout, yes?
Burnout!
Yes!
Actually, you know what, that was the trigger!
There was a talk about burnout, at the level
of Zoho Schools.
One of the STUDENTS, a seventeen-year-old-kid,
hyper-active, super-performer, we never expected
that person to say this to us..
That person came to us and said, “I am feeling
kinda ….”, … and that’s when I decided
to research a little more into it, and the
person is much better now, they also watched
the video, and that was the trigger!
Annamalai:- The other thing is, Zoho Schools
allows, Zoho as a company allows, people to
be open.
Some companies don’t.
Raj:- I would agree.
Yes.
The hierarchy is much flatter.
A flat hierarchy and an open culture prevent
the majority of the scenarios that lead to
seclusion and depression.
Annamalai:- You had also mentioned about automating
tasks and delegating, to reduce burnout.
I was thinking the same thing.
Some of the tasks that are not very important,
you can automate, or delegate it to others
who are more capable.
I saw this first in the Four Hour Workweek..
Raj:- Tim Ferriss…
Annamalai:- Yes, he had talked about it.
He says, this can help get you out of burnout.
Make your life better.
Raj:- Because, … the robots are coming!
They will do a better job than you if the
job you are doing is repetitive, is programmable,
is automatable, they are coming, they have
taken it already.
There was a person in our company, by name
Santhosh.
His nickname was Scriptananda.
Guess why?
More than half of the work he would do would
be about how to avoid doing work!
He would write a script for everything.
The only script he didn’t write.. is a script
to write scripts.
That’s how we would joke about him.
Scriptananda!
So, I think our aim should be to try and obsolete
the routine robotic part of us..
We should shed that and strive to climb upwards..
Or else, it is going to be hard.
Very hard!
Seriously!
Annamalai:- The next is about 434.
Memory Hook.
Vineet and Shankaran had made similar comments.
They had commented about your intro music,
that they got addicted to it!
Raj:- Oh, the music in the beginning…
Ha ha…
Annamalai:- Yes..
It was like a memory-trigger for people listening.
And, .. Shankaran was also talking about whether
you were active in coding and development…
Raj:- I think he was asking whether I was
active…
Well, deeply interested to be still in touch..!
For a very very long time, I have nursed projects,
half baked, half done, open on the IDE for
ages, .. someday, I plan to resume those.
In a week, there is a new year coming in.
Perhaps, somehow, I will wriggle a daily activity
involving coding into that too..
Let us meet on Github soon!
Annamalai:- Yes, I think, it is very important,
as a leader, to kinda show, that you are also
doing it, so that the others can follow.
It is a good thing!
In Quotidian 435, in Mind Your Brain, you
had talked about becoming a parent, the whole-brain
child…
Mohanavelu Ramasamy was becoming a parent,
and he was asking for parenting tips, and
any insights.. and what you have as a parent..
Raj:- So, .. well, some people have asked
me.. friends..
people who became parents AFTER me.. they
have committed the mistake of asking me parenting
tips and advice… and I have only said this.
“Do not try to control what you have no
idea what it will grow into”.
There is a chess game on the one side, and
a gardener’s role on the other side.
In the chess game, until the player decides
to move a piece, it is inert, it has no idea
what role it is playing in the game, and then,
after it has moved, it becomes inert again,
and waits for the next moment where the chess
player will probably touch it.
That’s the life of the chess game.
That’s what we think parenting is.
Sorry!
No!
The child has a life of its own!
Every moment you are wasting time with others,
the child is living a life, learning lessons,
good or bad, so be… the gardener mode.
What is the gardener mode?
It is your responsibility to give it fertiliser.
Do it.
Good light is your responsibility.
Good irrigation is your responsibility.
Do it.
It is your responsibility to remove the intervening
weeds too.
So, do it.
After that?
Wait!
Hope!
Wish!
Want!
Watch!
It will blossom.
Probably a beautiful flower, probably a sweet
fruit, it will come out beautifully, all by
itself.
That would be my message.
Are you a dad yet?!
Annamalai:- Err..
Not yet!
But, will be soon!
The other followup question I had was, you
have spoken in multiple occasions about how
you homeschooled your child.
So, I think one question I had was, how did
you handle multiple things together, for that
itself is a task..
so, how were you able to handle it?
Raj:- I have to be thankful to Zoho for it.
My wife and myself, both work in the same
company.
In fact, my son has joined me as a colleague
in the same company, and, we weren’t too
particular about time, in-time and out-time..
So, we ensured that she would enter the office
much later, and I would rush in a lot earlier,
and I would take a break in the afternoon,
to come over, spend some time with my son,
and I would work late at office, while she
would come home earlier, and … so on.. we
were able to pull off a skewed work timetable.
And, we ensured we always moved wherever the
company was.
It was like a stone’s throw.
Literally a stone’s throw, from office.
We wasted no time in travel.
And these things were really beneficial and
we were able to juggle..
Also, when anybody mentions homeschooling,
immediately, the focus is on NIOS..
(National Institute of Open Schooling).
Not really!
I had decided early in the game not to go
for any such alternative SYSTEM either.
I had the flexibility, hence.
I created my own one-man system, for him.
My wife, thankfully, she agreed, and played
along.
And my son, really cooperated!
And the result is, for the world to see soon!
Yeah!
Annamalai:- Definitely, you should do one
episode on Homeschooling.
There will be many interested in your approach.
Raj:- Yeah, I guess.
Annamalai:- We move to Quotidians 436 and
437.
Despicable You!
Smartjeev…
Raj:- Know what?
Nobody appreciated it..
In 436 and 437, I had chosen a specific color
to show the two numbers..
I was hoping somebody would make the connect.
Nobody did!
:-(
Annamalai:- There was a thirukkural that was
quoted.
Centuries old thinking along similar lines!
Sellidatthukkaappaan sinangkaappaan, allidatthukkaakkin
en kavaakkaalen!
Raj:- I checked this one out, only after hearing
about it here.
Beautiful!
Kural Number 301, I guess.
The basic takeaway from that Kural is, “If
you control your anger even when you know
for sure that you can achieve stuff by showing
your anger, .. only then you are an accomplished
man!
Not if you don’t show anger only after realising
anger won’t work in this scenario!
It doesn’t really matter then, whether you
show your anger or suppress it!”
Yes, I think I had talked about it in a closing
thought…
On whom, for what, and how, and to what extent,
you are going to show your anger… that is
what is going to set you apart as a learned
individual!
Annamalai:- And, you had talked about the
“Certified Kazhudhai Kuzhi”..
It was very nice to see you avoid the asshole-word
completely!
Raj:- I didn’t want to use that word, and
so, we went ahead and said, “Kazhudhaikkuzhi,
Kazhudhaikkuzhi”…
Annamalai:- That was very nice!
One final question.
About Alexa the Great.
Shine and Glow had tried “Self-Destruct”
and found it amazing!
It was so interesting to hear about the many
skills that Alexa has.
Raj:- The thing that is best about it?
That it can be trained!
Compared to the other services like Siri or
Cortana, .. Alexa has made it very easy to
get itself trained..
If you have developer access, you can teach
it skills!
That is the growth mindset Carol Dweck talks
about in her book.
That is easily inbuilt…
It appears in the Matrix movie too…
Do you know how to fly that chopper?
The answer from the lady is not “I don’t
know”.
It is “Not yet!”
Not yet!
Annamalai:- You had also posted an image of
the burning library of Alexandria.
Raj:- Midjourney!
Yes!
Annamalai:- I tried it too.
It was like mindblowing!
Like, you just give it a description and it
creates a mindblowing image version of it!
And, like you said, Your job is at risk, and
here is a prime example, right here!
Raj:- I am surely going to do an episode on
these guys..
This ChatGPT, Midjourney, WallE,
Annamalai:- All OpenAI.
They are doing like wonders, right!
Raj:- So, do you have any AI in your own products?
Annamalai:- Yes!
AI is involved.
We look at the video, the transcript, break
in audio, we look at all of that, to find
out segments.
But, these look even more advanced.
Raj:- Alright then!
Thanks a lot for being with us, and thanks
a lot for being with US!
All the best for your initiatives!
And, thanks for Chapterme.co!